By Mark Aldrich

These are the rules for my simple TTRPG, Bullshiticus Rex.  Meant to be played among
friends, non-competitively.  Players build their characters in minutes, and bullshit
powers for them as necessary.  The Game Master reigns in this bullshit and creates
bullshit of their own.  Have fun!

Each Player Will Need:  a d6 dice, a stack of notecards, a pencil, 2¼ ounces
imagination
The GameMaster (GM) Will Need:  5 d6 dice, a notebook, a pencil, 25 heaping lbs
bullshit

TO START

PLAYERS
Take a notecard.  This is your player sheet.  In the upper left hand corner, write
your character’s name.  In the upper right hand corner, put your actual name.  Below
that, write a paragraph about your character.  Their past and what they want should
be more than enough to start.  Just make sure anything you write jives with the GM’s
setting, because the GM has full authority to deny that character.  Leave some space
at the bottom, the GM will have you fill that later.

On the other side of the card, write the following stats on the far left edge:
Strength(Str) | Reflexes(Ref)
Knowledge(Kno) | Intuition(Int)
Charisma(Cha) | Awareness(Awa)

Assign each a value 6-1, with no repeats, based on what strengths or weaknesses your
character might have (a strong, stupid character would have Str 6 and Kno 1).
Here’s a description of each stat:

Strength: Physical prowess.  They can lift heavy things and swing swords hard.
Reflexes: Their ability to dodge, balance, walk silently, and aim.
Knowledge: The amount you know and your ability to pick up new things.
Intuition: Life experience telling you which move is the right move.
Charisma: Your ability to sway the opinions of others.
Awareness: Your ability to read the opinions of others.  Being able to tell what is
around you.

Next to your stats, write in HP, with Max HP and AR below it.  HP is your Health Points.
HP goes down when you are attacked, and goes up when you are healed.  If HP reaches 0,
you fall unconscious until helped by a friendly character.  Add your values for
Strength, Intuition, and Awareness together, divide by 2, round up, and add 6.  This
is your HP.  AR is your Armor Value, which reduces incoming damage.  Your AR is just
your Reflexes, plus the value of any protective equipment you are wearing.

Finally, Write “AP” below AR, and write 10 next to it.  AP is discussed later in
this manual.



GAME MASTER
Give your players a basic setting to work within: Fantasy apocalypse, The Old West,
a haunted spaceship, The Punic Wars, but with Dragons, etc.  Nothing too specific,
the details should be based on what your players create.

Then give your players a starting off point: They’re refugees running from a war,
scrappers looking for the next haul, high school dropouts trying to stay away from
drugs.  Whatever helps them come up with characters that are supposed to be together.

Have the players create their characters now, and follow the next step after they
describe their creations to the group.

Come up with a Theme for your story (an idea for your players to mull over) and ask
your players a question about that Theme.  If it’s a good Theme and question,
there should be obvious points of disagreement between the characters, which you can
use to create interesting dynamics between them.  Players should write their answer
in the remaining space below their character description.

Example Themes:
Power.  What kind of person should be in charge during a crisis?
Cloning.  Is the guy who just walked out of the pod actually your friend?
Innocence.  Should children be exposed to the harsh realities of life?
Robots.  What is the crossover point between a war machine and a man?


Finally, create a simple opening for the players.  A room, a crowded hallway, a farm,
etc.  If you drew a map, put your drawing in the middle of the play space.
Alternatively, you can describe the place verbally, and players draw it with their
brains.  Describe the area, the immediate situation, and ask the players what they
want to do first.


ON BULLSHIT
The rest of it is bullshit.  Make up things as you go.  Base what you make on
character decisions, backgrounds, and the setting itself.  Throw things and enemies
together on the fly, and make peace with the fact the players will probably stomp
on your baby five minutes after you tell them about it.  

Do not be afraid to tell your players the magical word “no” when their bullshit
flies in the face of your bullshit.  Pulling a rabbit out of the proverbial hat can
be cool, pulling the nuclear launch codes out of your butt is just silly!

And if there are any actions or situations not covered by the rules found here,
bullshit those rules together, and fix them when you screw up.  Just be sure to
record any new rules, so you can apply them consistently later.



GAMEPLAY
OUTSIDE OF COMBAT
Players do not need to go in turn, but should be courteous to players who haven’t had
an opportunity to act.  Players can move around, talk to people, and interact with
their environment.


IN COMBAT
Fights are more rigid to ensure all players have their share of action.  In combat,
all members of a side go before all members of the opposing side.  Combat starts with
the group that is most prepared for a fight.  Ambushers go first if it is a surprise 
attack.  Players go in seating order, with the player to the left of the GM going
first.  NPC enemies and allies go first based on whatever order the GM put them in.
During combat, players may move up to 5 body-lengths and perform one stat check or
ability.


STAT CHECKS
Basic actions that we do every day without thought or effort, such as opening doors
or picking up light objects do not require any kind of check.  Things that require
effort or skill are done with Stat Checks, which is a dice roll added to a stat and
an equipment bonus. EXAMPLE: Hacking a computer requires you beat a 10 in Knowledge,
you have 4 Kno, and a +3 Hacking Implant.  So 4 + 3 + 1d6.  Alternatively, breaking
the computer requires you beat a 4 in Strength.  You have 2 Str, and a +2
broadsword, so 2 + 2 + 1d6.  Rolling a 1 is an instant failure at the task, and the
GM supplies the number to be beaten.


EQUIPMENT
Any item that provides a bonus to a stat check.  Examples include body armor, which
increases your AR by 2, or a sword, which provides +1 to melee attacks.  Equipment
can also offer new abilities and passives not available to the player, such as
missile deflection or access to powerful spells.

Players that use equipment not suited to their character do so with half the usual
bonus, and cannot use that equipment’s unique abilities.  They will need to use it
for a (GM-determined) amount of time before unlocking its full potential.

Items in the player’s inventory should be listed next to the character stats, with
special items getting their own notecards.  The maximum amount of carryable
equipment is up to the discretion of the GM.

Players may also collect resources, raw materials that are required to use certain
abilities.  Resources may be used with abilities or on their own, depending on the
situation.  IE: Using grease to cause a fire.


ABILITIES
Abilities are special actions and powers that require more than just regular
effort.  These are spells, special moves, and miracles that can only be performed
by special individuals (AKA: the player characters).  They are created by the
players by spending Ability Points (AP) at any point during the first level, then
only on level-up after that.  New abilities and their effects should be written
on their own notecards separate from the player card.

Every player starts the game with 10AP, but gains 2AP on level-up, and can gain
additional AP from the GM as a reward for completing story-beats specific to the
character.  Each ability they create uses 1AP per dice rolled, 1AP for each
effect, and 1AP if the attack is at range.  1AP is removed if the ability expends
a resource.  The GM has final say on how many AP are spent on an ability and how
the effects work within the game.  All abilities cost a minimum of 1AP.

Damaging abilities go against enemy armor (AR).  If the dice roll + equipment +
stat are lower than AR, the attack does not hit and there is no effect.  If it IS
higher, the damage dealt is the difference between the total and AR, so if the
total is 10, and the enemy has 8AR, final damage is 2, and the ability effect takes
hold.  Abilities that do not do damage, but only apply an effect, must pass an
enemy’s stat check to work.  So your dice roll plus a stat vs the enemy’s stat.  If
you think an ability is an exception to these rules, discuss it with the GM.

ABILITY EXAMPLES
Power Attack: hurts an enemy and knocks them over: 1d6 + Str for damage, and knocks
them over.  2AP
Firebolt: damages an enemy at range, and sets them on fire: 2d6 + Kno, at range, and
sets them on fire.  4AP
Pocket Sand: blind an enemy, uses sand: 1d6 + Str vs Ref, blinds enemy.  It would be
2AP, but it requires sand, so 1AP
Calm Creature: make a hostile monster passive:  2d6 + Char vs Int, passive enemy.  
3AP
Scary Visage: gives an ally a scary face for 3 rounds, a chance to scare an opponent
on their attacks.  1d6 + 3 vs Awa.  3AP
Lock: Locks a door, window, box, or cabinet.  1d6 + Kno sets the lock strength. 2AP


PASSIVE ABILITIES
Always-active abilities that work in the background.  These cost slightly more than
regular abilities, and are slightly less effective.

EXAMPLES
Handsome: Double Charisma on stat checks when speaking to someone who is attracted to
you. 2AP
Aura: unconscious characters around you regain 1HP and wake up if your turn ends
within 5 feet of them.  2AP


ABSTRACT POINTS
Normal abilities can be performed once between rests, but some characters may allow
(with the GM’s approval) character-specific points that allow them to use certain
abilities multiple times, then refill the points during a rest or by using resources.
Examples of Abstract Points are Spirit Points for monks, or Blood-Alcohol Content for
drunken boxers.  These would be tracked by the player on the stat side of their card.


RESTING
Resting can happen when the players are in a safe location, away from enemies, and
agree to take a rest.  Resting refills HP and abstract points, removes effects that
the GM allows, and marks a moment when nothing interesting happens, so you are free
to go pee and get snacks.  If time is a significant factor in their setting, the GM
should choose a number of rests that would mark the end of the day.


DEATH
When a player’s HP falls below 0, they fall unconscious, and can no longer move or
perform actions.  Another player can spend their action to help the unconscious
player, restoring 2HP.  Player death can usually only occur when all players are
unconscious, though that is at the GMs discretion.  Really, death is entirely at the
behest of the GM, and can happen at any time if the players are morons.

EXAMPLE
If a character jumps head-first into a wood chipper, they die.


LEVEL UP
Level-ups are done by milestone only.  These milestones can be anything from beating
a boss, completing a story, or whenever else the GM decides.

On level-up, players gain 2AP.  They can spend these points on new abilities, upgrades
to existing abilities, or stat increases.  They may also save up points as “latent AP”
to spend on a later level-up.  There is no limit to the amount of latent AP a player
can have.  However, after the first level, new abilities can only be created on
level-up.

After applying or saving AP, players increase their health by 1d6 + Str.



FINAL THOUGHTS
The primary goal of Bullshiticus Rex is to create universal fun for as many players and
GMs as possible by minimizing rules, maximizing creative input, and requiring minimal
effort and materials to get started.  I hope you get as much enjoyment playing it as I
had making it!  - Mark

PS: If any language is confusing, or the grammar is off anywhere, sorry!  I'm bad a words,
and will fix it once I'm told about it.
