INTRODUCTION

AMONG GIANTS is a ruleset that handles gameplay when one player is huge
and powerful in comparison to the players around them.  While not
necessarily the main character, a large amount of game time will likely
be spent around the giant character and the world it inhabits.  

The first dilemma is to pick who will play the giant character.  This
can be by volunteering players, by luck of the draw, or the GM may
choose someone to play the part.

The giant character should start with a framework laid out by the GM.
If it’s a world where dragons are constantly at war with each other, 
the player could be a dragon that needs help in his battles.  If the
setting is 1950’s Maine, the player could be a giant robot that 
crash-lands in the ocean and bumps his head.

CHARACTER CREATION

Giant character creation is mostly the same as normal, but they gain 
one new stat: Power

Power is a multiplier chosen by the GM that is applied to stat effects.
EG: the player is an elephant that has 10 Power.  So their HP and AR 
is 10x what it would have been otherwise, and Str stat checks are 
multiplied by 10.  This would be x100 if the player were massive, like 
the size of a hill, or x1000 for a kaiju.  Power does not affect AP 
generation, or stat checks beyond strength.

Giant abilities are made in the same way as normal player abilities,
but their body size needs to be considered when handling scale and AP
costs.  A swiping attack from a normal character would do damage to all
the characters within a few feet of them, and cost 3AP (AOE, damage, 
knockdown effect), but the same ability done by a giant could wipe out
villages, destroy armies, or flatten forests if the character is big
enough.  However, the ability would still cost 3AP, because AOE cost
is determined by body length, and Power multiplication is handled after
the fact.

There will likely be anti-giant weapons in the world usable by small
characters.  These negate Power (10x damage), but may follow special
rules or require special skills to use.

THE WORLD

The setting the GM creates for the players to inhabit will likely fit into
one of two categories: a setting where giant creatures are a known entity,
or a setting where they are not.  When giants are a part of the world,
such as tribes of hill giants ingrained within society, infrastructure
would be built to accommodate them.  Wide city streets, elevated markets,
easy access to anti-giant weaponry, would be staples of integrated settlements.
And while many characters would treat one larger than themselves with wariness,
many also speak as if there is no threat at all.

Conversely, in a setting where giants are uncommon, character reactions would
range from awe to open hostility.  Infrastructure would not survive even
peaceful passing, and unseen forces would take notice of the giant’s actions.

In the first setting, smaller players would take a supporting role in combat,
as many combat encounters are likely to be between other giants, and some
abilities would need to be dedicated to protecting the large player while
debilitating enemy giants.

In the second setting, the giant player would need to watch their every move to
not damage the world, and smaller players would likely need to take on more
utilitarian roles to hide the giant from governments and groups that would
rather there not be a giant in their sphere of influence.  There would likely be
no challenge to the giant character at first, only developing as the world is
exposed to them.

PLAYER FOCUS

Beyond the normal goals and beliefs of your characters, the sheer difference in
scale offers two new objectives for players!  For giants, they must protect the
smaller players from threats they cannot withstand alone.  For small players,
they must support the giant, and keep it from doing anything stupid (a larger
size often means larger consequences).

TWO MAPS

Combat involving giants will likely require two maps because of the differences
of scale.  One small scale map would work for the players, and a much larger
battle map for the giants.  The smaller map should have a representative piece
of paper showing where it takes place on the larger map.

OTHER CONSIDERATIONS

Giant characters are incapable of whispering, and their voices carry far further
than smaller voices.

Unless very close, smalls may need to yell to be heard by giants.

Small characters may climb and ride giant characters, if the difference in scale
is great enough, but will need to pass checks to climb and stay aboard depending
on the type of giant creature, and if the giant wants to be ridden or not.

If you’re tracking that sort of thing, giants require far more in the way of
supplies to survive, in terms of food, medical care, and repair supplies.
